When I pasted in the source code in our previous demo for the HTML table,
you may have not caught that I had a comment in there that
actually is the XPath to get to that element.
I want to show you how I actually got that XPath.
So looking at our test that ran and the browser page
that popped up for our table test, here it is on the left,
table 1, row 1, table 2, row 1, table 2,
row 2.
Let's look at the XPath to grab that table 2, row 2.
The easiest way to go about this is to use the Select an element to inspect it,
and I can see where I'm navigating through the page.
And when I get to table 2, row 2,
I can right‑click on it and say Copy and Copy XPath.
Switching over to my editor, I can go inside of my TableTest and paste that,
and you'll see that it is that exact string for me to get to that location.
So that's how I can go ahead and get that XPath to that element on the page.
Now let's see how we use that inside of our test.
I'm going to make my WebDriver tables full screen.
I'm going to actually comment out what we have so far with that
WebElement, and I'll leave this row.getText System.out.println at
the bottom and say WebElement row = driver.findElement. And this
time, we're going to say By.xpath, and I still have that XPath in
my copy/paste buffer,
so I'm just going to paste it in. And that's it. That's all the code for me
to go through and navigate to that specific row. Yes,
it is an absolute path, and that can be dangerous. It can be more brittle.
But look at the fewer lines of code that we have to get to
this specific element. Let's run this and see if it
produces the output that we want.
So I'm just going to run that test again, and it's fired up my browser
window, and immediately it's printed out table 2, row 2.
So I've eliminated three lines of Java code to have one
path go through and get that out.
And think if we had tables nested three or four deep,
which is horrific as far as HTML is concerned, but sometimes
a lot of tools generate stuff that way.
If you've ever written tests against tools like Salesforce,
this is actually a really common problem that you run into.
A lot of autogenerated content or content management systems
have done stuff programmatically this way,
and this is a very good way for you to go navigate down that path and grab the element that you want.